# Today I Learned

## Programming

### Log Messages

From Udacity : Logging is the process of recording messages to describe events that have occurred while running your software. Let's take a look at a few examples, and learn tips for writing good log messages.

#### Tip: Be professional and clear

> Bad: Hmmm... this isn't working???
> Bad: idk.... :(
> Good: Couldn't parse file.

#### Tip: Be concise and use normal capitalization

> Bad: Start Product Recommendation Process
> Bad: We have completed the steps necessary and will now proceed with the recommendation process for the records in our product database.
> Good: Generating product recommendations.

#### Tip: Choose the appropriate level for logging

DEBUG - level you would use for anything that happens in the program.
ERROR - level to record any error that occurs
INFO - level to record all actions that are user-driven or system specific, such as regularly scheduled operations

#### Tip: Provide any useful information
> Bad: Failed to read location data
> Good: Failed to read location data: store_id 8324971

### Questions to Ask Yourself When Conducting a Code Review
First, let's look over some of the questions we may ask ourselves while reviewing code. These are simply from the concepts we've covered in these last two lessons!

#### Is the code clean and modular?
- Can I understand the code easily?
- Does it use meaningful names and whitespace?
- Is there duplicated code?
- Can you provide another layer of abstraction?
- Is each function and module necessary?
- Is each function or module too long?

#### Is the code efficient?
- Are there loops or other steps we can vectorize?
- Can we use better data structures to optimize any steps?
- Can we shorten the number of calculations needed for any steps?
- Can we use generators or multiprocessing to optimize any steps?

#### Is documentation effective?
- Are in-line comments concise and meaningful?
- Is there complex code that's missing documentation?
- Do function use effective docstrings?
- Is the necessary project documentation provided?

##### Is the code well tested?
- Does the code high test coverage?
- Do tests check for interesting cases?
- Are the tests readable?
- Can the tests be made more efficient?

#### Is the logging effective?
- Are log messages clear, concise, and professional?
- Do they include all relevant and useful information?
- Do they use the appropriate logging level?
