# Today I Learned

## Time Management

### [Hours](https://cutebouncingbunnies.wordpress.com/2020/03/30/hours/)

> In a sense it says "micromanagement is good", but here's the catch:

"Hours" is kinda like checking in and checking out with your chunk of time together with a partner that you're not directly responsible with.

Some things to note when doing hours:
- Brief
- Be honest
- Be supportive
- Sufficiently Responsible : To yourself and your partner
- Not a taskmaster!
- Voluntary
- Decline when in the Zone. Use for boring, unpleasant, dull, and stressful tasks.
- But it's ok to do it to support your partner.

Like all tools it may be useful to some, but don't expect everyone to click with it. And don't do it 40 hours a week (may lead to burnout)

> You can always say **NO** to hours.

## Computer Systems

### [Systems that Defy Detailed Understanding](https://blog.nelhage.com/post/systems-that-defy-understanding/)

> Not every system behavior worth pursuing in-detail understanding. Either it is impossible, impractical, or waste of time.

#### Complex Distributed System

Majority of complexity in distributed systems arises from possibility of failure in nodes or edges.

If there are system failure in a distributed system, you'll likely face the problem of fixing the _root problem_, or handling the _fault tolerance layer_ of your system. Tracing behavior in these systems is hard for at least two reasons:
1. Sheer complexity and amount of code involved
2. Compounding the first, the massively concurrent and async nature of distributed system.

**What works** : address the system level failure rather than individual ones. So the effort will be more focused on how to make the system resilient enough to still be working when an individual failure happened. Thus, aimed for the system to have higher reliability than any individual process.

#### Client-side Javascript

Error reporting for JS error will produce a deluge of weird and incomprehensible errors. Sentry even has [documentation](https://blog.sentry.io/2017/03/27/tips-for-reducing-javascript-error-noise/) on how to filter it out.

There are a lot of possibilities:
- Out of date browsers,
- Buggy browser extension
- adblockers
- broken browser caches or middleboxes
- etc.

**What woks** : treat it as statistical problem. Only treat errors that appear above some rate or has significant trends. Collect user browser environment, and common browser extension to pre-release testing process. For persistent issues, resort to empirical methods.

#### Deep Learning

While DL looks like any other programming, it is also different in a lot of fundamental and practical ways. No one really understands why these DL systems work.

**What works** : Incrementalist, empirical approach. Start with simplest possible version of system and show it works, iterate from that. If re-implementing a paper/ algorithm try to find their code and make sure matching their behavior as precisely as possible, only modify it from then.

Double, or triple check your data and data infra (it is plain-ol-code so exploit)! Once in neural networks zone, errors become hard to trace, so put much rigor before it.

>Theoretical understanding of a system can inform which experiments and observations to perform, and observation refine and feed into mental models. Learning to master and deploy each mindset individually is an important step on the journey of a senior engineer; learning how to effectively switch between them and merge them when faced with a problem is a further step
